README.md, before:

# MCP Server for Data Exploration

MCP Server is a versatile tool designed for interactive data exploration.

Your personal Data Scientist assistant, turning complex datasets into clear, actionable insights.

## 🚀 Try it Out

1. **Download Claude Desktop**
   - Get it [here](https://claude.ai/download)

2. **Install and Set Up**
   - On macOS, run the following command in your terminal:
   ```bash
   python setup.py
   ```

3. **Load Templates and Tools**
   - Once the server is running, wait for the prompt template and tools to load in Claude Desktop.

4. **Start Exploring**
   - Select the explore-data prompt template from MCP
   - Begin your conversation by providing the required inputs:
     - `csv_path`: Local path to the CSV file
     - `topic`: The topic of exploration (e.g., "Weather patterns in New York" or "Housing prices in California")

## Examples

These are examples of how you can use MCP Server to explore data without any human intervention.

### Case 1: California Real Estate Listing Prices
- Kaggle Dataset: [USA Real Estate Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ahmedshahriarsakib/usa-real-estate-dataset)
- Size: 2,226,382 entries (178.9 MB)
- Topic: Housing price trends in California

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/RQZbeuaH9Ys/hqdefault.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RQZbeuaH9Ys)
- [Data Exploration Summary](https://claude.site/artifacts/058a1593-7a14-40df-bf09-28b8c4531137)

### Case 2: Weather in London
- Kaggle Dataset: [2M+ Daily Weather History UK](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jakewright/2m-daily-weather-history-uk/data)
- Size: 2,836,186 entries (169.3 MB)
- Topic: Weather in London
- Report: [View Report](https://claude.site/artifacts/601ea9c1-a00e-472e-9271-3efafb8edede)
- Graphs:
  - [London Temperature Trends](https://claude.site/artifacts/9a25bc1e-d0cf-498a-833c-5179547ee268)
<img width="1622" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-09 at 12 48 56 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e70fe97-8af7-4221-b1e7-00197c88bb47">

  - [Temperature-Humidity Relationship by Season](https://claude.site/artifacts/32a3371c-698d-48e3-b94e-f7e88ce8093d)
<img width="1623" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-09 at 12 47 54 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f4ac60a8-30e3-4b10-b296-ba412c2922fa">

  - [Wind Direction Pattern by Season](https://claude.site/artifacts/32a3371c-698d-48e3-b94e-f7e88ce8093d)
<img width="1622" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-09 at 12 47 00 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2db01054-f948-4d2e-ba39-8de8fa59f83d">

## 📦 Components

### Prompts
- **explore-data**: Tailored for data exploration tasks

### Tools
1. **load-csv**
   - Function: Loads a CSV file into a DataFrame
   - Arguments:
     - `csv_path` (string, required): Path to the CSV file
     - `df_name` (string, optional): Name for the DataFrame. Defaults to df_1, df_2, etc., if not provided

2. **run-script**
   - Function: Executes a Python script
   - Arguments:
     - `script` (string, required): The script to execute

## ⚙️ Modifying the Server

### Claude Desktop Configurations
- macOS: `~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`
- Windows: `%APPDATA%/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

### Development (Unpublished Servers)
```json
"mcpServers": {
  "mcp-server-ds": {
    "command": "uv",
    "args": [
      "--directory",
      "/Users/username/src/mcp-server-ds",
      "run",
      "mcp-server-ds"
    ]
  }
}
```

### Published Servers
```json
"mcpServers": {
  "mcp-server-ds": {
    "command": "uvx",
    "args": [
      "mcp-server-ds"
    ]
  }
}
```

## 🛠️ Development

### Building and Publishing
1. **Sync Dependencies**
   ```bash
   uv sync
   ```

2. **Build Distributions**
   ```bash
   uv build
   ```
   Generates source and wheel distributions in the dist/ directory.

3. **Publish to PyPI**
   ```bash
   uv publish
   ```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether you're fixing bugs, adding features, or improving documentation, your help makes this project better.

### Reporting Issues
If you encounter bugs or have suggestions, open an issue in the issues section. Include:
- Steps to reproduce (if applicable)
- Expected vs. actual behavior
- Screenshots or error logs (if relevant)

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
See the LICENSE file for details.

## 💬 Get in Touch

Questions? Feedback? Open an issue or reach out to the maintainers. Let's make this project awesome together!

## About

This is an open source project run by [ReadingPlus.AI LLC](https://readingplus.ai). and open to contributions from the entire community.

Commit message:

Update README with Windows instructions

README.md, after:

# MCP Server for Data Exploration

MCP Server is a versatile tool designed for interactive data exploration.

Your personal Data Scientist assistant, turning complex datasets into clear, actionable insights.

## 🚀 Try it Out

1. **Download Claude Desktop**
   - Get it [here](https://claude.ai/download)

2. **Install and Set Up**
   - On macOS, run the following command in your terminal:
   ```bash
   python setup.py
   ```
   
   - On Windows, run the following command in Command Prompt or PowerShell:
   ```bash
   python setup_windows.py
   ```

3. **Load Templates and Tools**
   - Once the server is running, wait for the prompt template and tools to load in Claude Desktop.

4. **Start Exploring**
   - Select the explore-data prompt template from MCP
   - Begin your conversation by providing the required inputs:
     - `csv_path`: Local path to the CSV file
     - `topic`: The topic of exploration (e.g., "Weather patterns in New York" or "Housing prices in California")

## Examples

These are examples of how you can use MCP Server to explore data without any human intervention.

### Case 1: California Real Estate Listing Prices
- Kaggle Dataset: [USA Real Estate Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ahmedshahriarsakib/usa-real-estate-dataset)
- Size: 2,226,382 entries (178.9 MB)
- Topic: Housing price trends in California

[![Watch the video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/RQZbeuaH9Ys/hqdefault.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RQZbeuaH9Ys)
- [Data Exploration Summary](https://claude.site/artifacts/058a1593-7a14-40df-bf09-28b8c4531137)

### Case 2: Weather in London
- Kaggle Dataset: [2M+ Daily Weather History UK](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jakewright/2m-daily-weather-history-uk/data)
- Size: 2,836,186 entries (169.3 MB)
- Topic: Weather in London
- Report: [View Report](https://claude.site/artifacts/601ea9c1-a00e-472e-9271-3efafb8edede)
- Graphs:
  - [London Temperature Trends](https://claude.site/artifacts/9a25bc1e-d0cf-498a-833c-5179547ee268)
<img width="1622" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-09 at 12 48 56 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e70fe97-8af7-4221-b1e7-00197c88bb47">

  - [Temperature-Humidity Relationship by Season](https://claude.site/artifacts/32a3371c-698d-48e3-b94e-f7e88ce8093d)
<img width="1623" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-09 at 12 47 54 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f4ac60a8-30e3-4b10-b296-ba412c2922fa">

  - [Wind Direction Pattern by Season](https://claude.site/artifacts/32a3371c-698d-48e3-b94e-f7e88ce8093d)
<img width="1622" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-09 at 12 47 00 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2db01054-f948-4d2e-ba39-8de8fa59f83d">

## 📦 Components

### Prompts
- **explore-data**: Tailored for data exploration tasks

### Tools
1. **load-csv**
   - Function: Loads a CSV file into a DataFrame
   - Arguments:
     - `csv_path` (string, required): Path to the CSV file
     - `df_name` (string, optional): Name for the DataFrame. Defaults to df_1, df_2, etc., if not provided

2. **run-script**
   - Function: Executes a Python script
   - Arguments:
     - `script` (string, required): The script to execute

## ⚙️ Modifying the Server

### Claude Desktop Configurations
- macOS: `~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`
- Windows: `%APPDATA%/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

### Development (Unpublished Servers)
```json
"mcpServers": {
  "mcp-server-ds": {
    "command": "uv",
    "args": [
      "--directory",
      "/Users/username/src/mcp-server-ds",
      "run",
      "mcp-server-ds"
    ]
  }
}
```

### Published Servers
```json
"mcpServers": {
  "mcp-server-ds": {
    "command": "uvx",
    "args": [
      "mcp-server-ds"
    ]
  }
}
```

## 🛠️ Development

### Building and Publishing
1. **Sync Dependencies**
   ```bash
   uv sync
   ```

2. **Build Distributions**
   ```bash
   uv build
   ```
   Generates source and wheel distributions in the dist/ directory.

3. **Publish to PyPI**
   ```bash
   uv publish
   ```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether you're fixing bugs, adding features, or improving documentation, your help makes this project better.

### Reporting Issues
If you encounter bugs or have suggestions, open an issue in the issues section. Include:
- Steps to reproduce (if applicable)
- Expected vs. actual behavior
- Screenshots or error logs (if relevant)

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
See the LICENSE file for details.

## 💬 Get in Touch

Questions? Feedback? Open an issue or reach out to the maintainers. Let's make this project awesome together!

## About

This is an open source project run by [ReadingPlus.AI LLC](https://readingplus.ai). and open to contributions from the entire community.
